Title: Youth of Color

----

Text: 

Youth of Color

Hispanic and Latinx participants are 20 percent more likely than other youth to have been personally bullied. Much of the harassment that participants described targeted both immigrant and non-immigrant Hispanic and Latinx communities.
For some youth, fear of harassment has affected every facet of life. One Hispanic 18-year-old from Illinois wrote, “My family and I go shopping and wash clothes at 2 am to avoid seeing and hearing people’s comments.”
Some youth of color have begun to downplay their race or ethnicity. An 18-year-old from California wrote, “I stopped speaking Spanish in places I could avoid [it]. I told my parents to stop speaking Spanish as well.”
Sometimes these changes are the result of explicit pressure. A 15-year-old African-American girl from Virginia said she’d stopped wearing her hair down after being told it was “distracting” other students because it was “too curly and big.”
Youth of color described feeling increasingly unwelcome in predominantly white spaces. A 16-year-old from Texas wrote, “I go to a majority white school and I take all AP classes [but] most of my African American friends/classmates take [different courses…] When I say anything in class a lot of people gang up on me and it’s overwhelming.”
In some cases, exclusion and fear are shaping major decisions. An 18-year-old from Georgia explained, “I went from planning a school and career close to home to searching for schools and careers near my family’s Native American reservation, which is literally on the other side of the country, to avoid hate crimes…[I’m] wondering, if that happens, if I’ll ever see my mom and my friends again.”

Living at the Intersections

Teens’ responses made clear that these aggressions are thoroughly interconnected. The bullying they described often targeted more than one characteristic. For instance, a 16-year-old from Idaho told us: “A year ago I became open about being trans, and I knew that a few individuals that I go to school with weren’t too pleased about it. A couple of weeks ago one of the boys had said, to my Latinx friend: ‘Donald Trump is gonna deport wastes of space like you!,’ then turned to me and said ‘And hopefully he does something about freaks like you too.”
In many cases, the same teens are harassed for more than one reason, or because of a combination of traits. Teens also described concealing more than one part of their identity at once. One 16-year-old from South Carolina wrote, “I decided on election night against transitioning to my natural hair anytime soon because the less I look like who I am, maybe the safer I’ll be...Also, I’m pretty sure I’m bisexual, but I am absolutely not under any circumstances ever coming out.”
These experiences have led teens to develop a sense of solidarity across the identities they see targeted. In the words of an 18-year-old from New Mexico, “If you pick on one of us, you fight us all.”

----

Fields: 

----

Aside: 

More than 70 percent of participants who’d observed bullying or harassment said that at least one incident had been based on race, making it the most common motive reported.

Some youth of color have begun to downplay their race or ethnicity. An 18-year-old from California wrote, “I stopped speaking Spanish in places I could avoid [it]. I told my parents to stop speaking Spanish as well.”

Youth of color described feeling increasingly unwelcome in predominantly white spaces. A
16-year-old from Texas wrote, “I go to a majority white school and I take all AP classes [but] most of my African American friends/classmates take [different courses…] When I say anything in class a lot of people gang up on me and it’s overwhelming.”