Title: Establishing Equality across the US

----

Text: 

An unprecedented onslaught of anti-LGBTQ legislation in the state... the shameless defiance of marriage equality by deplorable officials like Judge Roy Moore and County Clerk Kim Davis … the continued discrimination against LGBTQ people in housing, employment, education, public services and spaces — these pernicious problems require a sweeping solution.

That’s why HRC is pushing so hard for Congress to pass the bipartisan Equality Act, which will guarantee full civil rights for all LGBTQ people nationwide. The Equality Act was introduced on July 23, 2015, with a record-breaking number of co-sponsors that has since grown even larger. Passage would guarantee equality on such a grand scale — and bring such wholesale change to the lives of LGBTQ people and families nationwide — that it constitutes, according to HRC President Chad Griffin, “truly the biggest legislative battle in the history of our movement.”

Although marriage equality is now a nationwide reality, scores of disgruntled legislators are pushing back under the guise of “religious freedom” — falsely claiming that protecting the civil rights of LGBTQ people infringes on their rights.

Emboldened, right-wing legislators began drafting laws allowing businesses to refuse to serve LGBTQ people … nullifying local ordinances to protect LGBTQ rights … and overtly discriminating against transgender people. More than 200 bills designed to harm LGBTQ people have been introduced in 34 states.

HRC is standing up to these bills everywhere they emerge. By rallying grassroots activists, mobilizing corporate allies and relentlessly fact checking opponents’ lies, we’ve defeated the vast majority of attacks, including securing vetoes in South Dakota and Georgia.

The most notorious of these bills, HB2, was rammed through the North Carolina legislature in less than 12 hours — then signed in the dead of night by Gov. Pat McCrory. HRC President Chad Griffin met with McCrory, and more than 200 CEOs and business leaders signed a letter urging repeal. But the governor, like his legislative colleagues, proved shamefully willing to court economic catastrophe to indulge his own bigotry. It is costing North Carolina dearly — roughly a half billion dollars in economic activity, at print time. The U.S. Justice Department filed a civil rights lawsuit against the state and threatened to cut off billions in federal education funding. We worked alongside ally and former Solicitor General Ted Olson to file an amicus brief on behalf of 68 leading businesses in support of the Department of Justice’s suit against HB2.

And, in a stunning rebuke, the National Basketball Association announced it would not hold the 2017 NBA All-Star Game in Charlotte after all, a painful and costly consequence of HB2. The NCAA, ACC and CIAA shortly followed suit, pulling dozens of major championships from the state.

HRC will work tirelessly until the days of attacking LGBTQ people for political gain are over.

----

Aside: 

Nearly two-thirds of LGBTQA+ people nationwide report experiencing discrimination.

HRC deployed staff to 16 states to fight discriminatory bills, generated 200,000 constituent contacts to legislators, provided legal support to local allies, and educated lawmakers, reporters and others about the effects of  anti-LGBTQA+ bills.

In key swing states like Ohio, North Carolina and Florida, the population of eligible LGBTQA+ voters is greater than the average margin of victory in the last three presidential elections.
 
60 cities achieved perfect scores in HRC’s Municipal Equality Index — up from just 11 cities that did so in 2012, the inaugural year.

HRC Alabama has engaged  130 faith communities in the state, leading discussions on gender identity, sexual orientation and theology.

----

Fields: 