Title: Reasons Youth Don't Come Out at School

----

Text: 

LGBT youth are much more likely than their peers to experience verbal harassment, exclusion, and physical attack at school.
At the same time, most say most of their peers do not have a problem with their LGBT identity, nearly all are out to their close friends, and most are out to their classmates. LGBT youth rate schools as one of the most accepting parts of their community outside of peers and 47% report having a Gay Straight Alliance (54% among LGBT high school students). They are as likely as their peers to participate in after school activities.

In Washington, D.C. and in state capitals, HRC fights for safe schools legislation that protects LGBT young people from discrimination and bullying. Many states have already adopted inclusive legislation, but there remains work to be done to implement those laws through training and increasing the cultural competence of education personnel. 
On the federal level, HRC advocates for better protections for LGBT students, with a current focus on non-discrimination and anti-bullying/harassment policies. Additionally, HRC seeks to improve the way current laws are implemented for LGBT youth.

The Student Non-Discrimination Act would prohibit schools from discriminating against LGBT students and provide students and parents federal protection from harassment and discrimination. The Safe Schools Improvement Act would promote school safety through a comprehensive focus on bullying or harassment with specific inclusion of sexual orientation and gender identity. School districts in states that receive specific federal funds would be required to adopt codes of conduct specifically prohibiting bullying and harassment, including on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and religion. 

HRC works with federal agencies, including the Justice Department and the Department of Education, to ensure that—wherever possible given current laws – federal regulations regarding safety and nondiscrimination are applied to protect vulnerable LGBT youth. In state capitals across the country, HRC is advancing anti-bullying and non-discrimination legislation for K-12 schools. Some states have moved forward with improved laws and more states are considering efforts to limit the threat of cyber bullying. Further, some states that have other positive LGBT-related laws still do not address bullying and discrimination in the schools.

The Welcoming Schools project of the HRC Foundation is an LGBT-inclusive approach to addressing family diversity, gender stereotyping, bullying and name calling in K-5 schools. With a focus on family diversity, it actively values families headed by LGBT parents. Its attention to gender stereotyping and name-calling can help create safer school cultures for all students and creates a more balanced and accurate understanding of LGBT people as students enter the challenging years of middle school. While the program was designed for K-5 elementary schools, some K-8 schools have used Welcoming Schools and have adapted the program for older grades.

**Bullying and Harassment **

A substantial majority of participants—70 percent—had witnessed bullying, hate messages or harassment during or since the election, with only 14 percent saying they definitely had not seen such activity.

Of those who had observed bullying, hate messages and harassment, 79 percent said these behaviors were happening more often since the presidential campaigns began—including 32 percent who said they were happening “much more often.”
We were especially interested in bullying and harassment that seemed to be motivated by a particular identity, including race, religion, gender, or LGBTQ identity. 

Twenty-four percent of participants who observed bullying and harassment said it had been directed at them personally. Of the rest, most said that at least some of the harassment was directed at a group they belong to, such as people of their race or gender.

Participants saw clear links between harassment and the presidential election. Nearly two-thirds of those who saw harassment said at least one incident was definitely because of the election, including instances in which the perpetrator repeated a campaign slogan while making a threat or harassing comment. An additional 30 percent thought some of the events might have been linked to the election. Only six percent felt there was no connection. Thirty-six percent of participants said they’d changed something about the way they express themselves as a result of the election.

----

Aside: 

Nearly half of LGBT youth (47%) say they do not “fit in” to their community while only 16% of non-LGBT youth feel that way.

LGBT youth are twice as likely as their peers to say they will need to move to another town or part of the country to feel accepted. Among LGBT youth, 63% say they will need to move, while 31% of their peers report the same. 

LGBT youth are about twice as likely as their peers to have been verbally harassed and called names outside of school (in the neighborhood or mall, etc.) as well as to have been physically assaulted outside of school. Among LGBT youth, 18% report verbal harassment while 10% of non-LGBT youth report the same; 5% of LGBT youth report physical assault compared with 3% of their peers. 

28% of LGBT youth, report attending church or religious services very often or sometimes while 58% of non-LGBT youth say the same. LGBT youth are less than half as likely as their peers to participate in a church/religious youth group, with 22% of LGBT youth saying they participate very often or sometimes while 47% of their peers say the same.

Less than a third (30%) of LGBT youth say they play sports very often or sometimes for their school or community league/club, while about half (49%) of non-LGBT youth say they do. Only 18% of LGBT youth say they participate very often or sometimes in an LGBT group outside of school. However, 52% of LGBT youth say they participate very often or sometimes in an online community that addresses issues facing LGBT youth.

Nearly six in ten LGBT youth (57%) say that churches or places of worship in their community are not accepting of LGBT people; a third (35%) say their own church or place of worship is not accepting.

At the same time, nearly half (49%) of LGBT youth believe things are getting much better or somewhat better in their communities. Another 41% say things are about the same, while 9% of LGBT youth report that things are getting much or somewhat worse in their communities

----

Fields: 