Title: Reasons Youth don't Come Out to Family

----

Text: 

While a slight majority of survey respondents feel accepted by their family, far too many young people lack this critical support. We know that a strong base of support at home is essential for the long term positive outcomes for LGBT youth. 
To address the disproportionate number of LGBT youth who are homeless, HRC advocates for federal action to prevent homelessness, improve funding for homeless youth programs, and expand existing programs to make them more inclusive of LGBT youth. HRC supports legislation, the Reconnecting Youth to Prevent Homelessness Act, which would require that the Secretary of Health and Human Services establish a demonstration project to develop programs that are focused on improving family relationships and reducing homelessness for LGBT youth.
HRC is also working with federal agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services, to improve existing programs that serve youth in foster care, including those aging out of the system and becoming independent, to ensure they are inclusive of LGBT youth and that vulnerable LGBT youth do not get placed into hostile foster homes.
HRC is building awareness and support among federal legislators of the Every Child Deserves a Family Act, a bill that would prohibit discrimination in federally financed adoption and foster care, and would ensure that LGBT youth in care do not experience discrimination.
The HRC Foundation’s All Children – All Families initiative works with public and private adoption and foster care agencies to improve their practices regarding LGBT prospective parents. This would expand the number of caring, qualified adults who are able to parent youth in foster care, including the disproportionate number of LGBT youth in care.
HRC also collaborates with and showcases the work of leaders in the field of family acceptance, including the Family Acceptance Project and Gender Spectrum, identifying new ways to encourage families to affirm and embrace LGBT youth and prevent some of the challenges identified here.


CULTURE
The Human Rights Campaign is America’s largest civil rights organization working to achieve lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender equality. By inspiring and engaging all Americans, HRC strives to end discrimination against LGBT citizens and realize a nation that achieves fundamental fairness and equality for all. Its work has particular resonance for young people who continue to live in a world where societal prejudice continues to weigh on them and “that’s so gay” is a common schoolyard epithet.
Through HRC’s visibility and outreach, HRC is often a first point of-contact for many youth. HRC’s website offers blogs, videos, and other resources on federal & state advocacy, hate crimes, health, marriage, parenting, religion & faith, straight supporters, transgender issues, workplace, youth & campus. Online and by phone, HRC often refers young people to national, regional, and local resources that meet their individual needs. 
The HRC team works to de-stigmatize LGBT issues and promote positive messages and images for LGBT people, including youth. HRC’s “Call It Out” project brings attention to and combats homophobia and transphobia wherever it occurs and promotes respect and civil discourse. Whether it is from a local school board member, a religious organization, national ‘advocacy groups’ or elected officials, anti-gay vitriol creates a toxic environment that can make LGBT people – particularly youth – think they are not worthy of the same legal rights and love that all Americans deserve. There remain additional opportunities to build greater acceptance particularly in the world of sports where HRC is partnering with groups like the Ben Cohen Stand-Up Foundation and Athlete Ally.
Marriage equality can improve the lives of LGBT young people in two key ways. It alters their perceptions of what is possible in the future, beyond current family life and school, and for those youth who have same-sex parents themselves, the ability for their family to receive full legal recognition can be an important milestone toward greater community connection. In addition to its extensive legislative and field work on marriage equality bills or ballot measures, HRC launched the online media campaign “Americans for Marriage Equality.” This video campaign features prominent Americans – including athletes, film and music celebrities, political and civil rights leaders, and business leaders – many of whom are admired and respected by youth.
For more than a decade, HRC has sponsored and promoted National Coming Out Day, generating media attention and public discussion on the importance of LGBT openness. Coming out has a powerful impact beyond the individual. As the number of Americans who say they know someone who is LGBT has increased, so has public support for fairness and equality. Through National Coming Out Day, its blog, and other online resources, HRC promotes stories with affirming messages that are especially important for LGBT youth who may otherwise be isolated in their communities.
HRC has created a resource bank of materials to help individual LGBT people, including youth first coming to terms with their identity. Popularly downloaded and requested materials include: Resource Guide to Coming Out Resource Guide to Coming Out for African Americans Transgender Visibility: A Guide to Being You

----

Aside: 

More than half (56%) of LGBT youth say they are out to their immediate family; a quarter (25%) are out to their extended family.

About half (49%) of LGBT youth say they have an adult in their family they could turn to for help if they felt worried or sad. Fully 79% of non-LGBT youth have an adult in their family they could turn to for help.

Less than a third of LGBT youth (32%) chose their family among a list of places where they most often hear positive messages about being LGBT; nearly half (46%) chose their family among a list of places where they most often hear negative messages about being LGBT.

92% or 9 in 10 LGBT youth (92%) say they hear negative messages about being LGBT. 78%Three-quarters (78%) of LGBT youth say they hear positive messages.

----

Fields: 