Title: Monitoring the Haters

----

Text: 

MONITORING THE HATERS: KEEPING TRACK OF THE ANTI-LGBTQ INDUSTRY 

Dangerous groups like the World Congress of Families, Alliance Defending Freedom, Liberty Counsel and many others share one goal: to obliterate the rights of LGBTQ people, and even our lives. Fueled by hate, they operate in the United States and abroad. The more we advance, the more they try to push us back. And the 2015 Supreme Court decision on marriage equality kicked them into high gear. HRC energetically fights these groups on all fronts. Our staff tracks their activity — attending conferences and recording their rhetoric, then exposing their outrageous agendas and lies to the world.

And every time they try to throw their weight around, HRC steps in to buffer the damage. Last November in tiny Mount Horeb, Wis., Liberty Counsel threatened to sue a local school that was planning to read I Am Jazz, a book by TLC star and HRC Youth Ambassador Jazz Jennings about her experiences as a transgender girl. Local parent Amy Lyle bravely stood up to the powerful hate group, with prompt help on the ground from the HRC Foundation’s Welcoming Schools project.

Lyle and the HRC Foundation planned a much larger event at a local library, and the HRC Foundation donated 40 copies of Jazz’s book to give away. A crowd of more than 600 children and adults came to hear Jazz’s story — and a few days later, the local school board adopted measures to protect transgender students. This victory in Wisconsin inspired the HRC Foundation to organize I Am Jazz readings in schools, community centers and churches across the country. We see it as our duty to shine a spotlight on these shameful groups, hold their leaders and followers accountable — and remind the pro-equality majority that while these views may be on the fringes, the dangerous groups that espouse them draw plenty of establishment support.

----

Fields: 

----

Aside: 

Polls show 80 percent of Americans support federal non-discrimination protections for LGBTQA+ people.

The Equality Act would provide explicit, permanent protections against discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity in employment, housing, access to public places, federal funding, credit, education and jury service. It would also prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex in federal funding and access to public places.

In Massachusetts, Republican Gov. Charlie Baker signed legislation banning discrimination against transgender people in hotels, restaurants and other public accommodations.

HRC Arkansas laid the groundwork through Project One America to mobilize 2,000 people to protest HB 1228, a so-called religious freedom bill, for four consecutive days.

Arkansas retail giant Walmart came out against HB 1228 — the first time the company has taken a public position on LGBTQA+ rights.

In March 2016, HRC launched the Business Coalition for Equality. This group of more than 80 companies — household names like Apple, Amazon, GE, PepsiCo and Target — already treat their own employees with fundamental dignity and fairness as a matter of policy. They support HRC’s efforts to extend these basic protections to everyone, no matter where they work or live.

During the 2016 GOP presidential primary, three mainstream candidates — Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee — spoke at the National Religious Liberties Conference in Iowa. Conference organizer Kevin Swanson advocated putting LGBTQA+ people to death.

The nation’s largest anti-LGBTQA+ group is the Alliance Defending Freedom, which fans the flames of LGBTQA+ hatred abroad as well as here in the United States. ADF has an annual budget of more than $54 million.

ADF wrote marriage equality bans in Idaho, Colorado and South Carolina. It fights against nondiscrimination laws for LGBTQA+ people and uses its vast resources to bully transgender youth by filing bogus lawsuits protesting laws designed to protect them.

Liberty Counsel calls people who advocate for LGBTQA+ equality “terrorists” and says progress toward equality will cause God to destroy America.

Liberty Counsel President Mat Staver represented Rowan County (Kentucky) Clerk Kim Davis, who was jailed for refusing to provide marriage licenses to LGBTQA+ couples after the Supreme Court decision.

Thanks to the Supreme Court, marriage equality is the law of the land — yet 31 states still lack guaranteed non-discrimination protections on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. This means a gay couple could be legally married in the morning and legally kicked out of a restaurant that afternoon.

In 2015, U.S. Congressional allies formed the Transgender Equality Task Force. In testimony before the group, HRC President Chad Griffin called violence against transgender people “an epidemic that’s raging across the country and ravaging our communities.”

To help the 4,000-plus LGBTQA+ asylum-seekers who arrive in the United States annually, the HRC Foundation collaborated with the LGBT Freedom and Asylum Network and the National LGBTQA+ Task Force to produce Stronger Together: A Guide to Supporting LGBT Asylum Seekers in the United States.

At the beginning of the Islamic New Year, the HRC Foundation released Coming Home: To Islam and to Self, a resource guide for LGBTQA+ Muslims. It is the third in HRC Foundation’s Coming Home guides for LGBTQA+ people of faith.